.TH mw 1 "2023-05-30" "Jamie Hardt" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
mw \- audio sample editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY mw
.RI "[\-e " COMMAND "]"
.RI "[\-f " COMMAND-FILE "]" 
.RI "[" "SOUND-FILE ..." "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mw
is an interactive, text-mode audio sample editor. Audio files provided as 
arguments on the command line can be inspected, edited, mixed and exported.
.B mw
can be thought of as a kind of 
.BR ed "(1),"
except for editing audio sample vectors instead of text files, and with 
functions  tailored to the specifc case of editing sample vectors.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-e COMMAND, \-\-exec=COMMAND"
Execute 
.I COMMAND
after loading the sound file arguments onto the stack.
Can be used multiple times to run multiple commands.
.IP "\-f COMMAND-FILE, \-\-file=COMMAND-FILE"
Execute commands from 
.IR COMMAND-FILE ","
one line per command.
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Print brief help.
.SH DETAILED DESCRIPTION
.SS MOTIVATION
.B mw
is an audio sample editor, designed to edit individual, contiguous sounds in a 
manner similar to 
.BR "BIAS Peak" ", " "Audacity" " or " "iZotope RX" "."
.B mw
runs fully in text mode on a terminal, and allows viewing and manipulating 
audio data without recourse to a GUI; this can be useful to users who can't 
access a GUI in their environment for whatever reason, or as part of a broader 
text-mode workflow.
.SS THEORY OF OPERATION
.B mw
accepts filenames as arguments from the command line and pushes these sounds 
onto an internal 
.BR stack "." 
Editing functions (such as 
.IR crop " or " "fadein" ")"
target the sound at the top of the stack, while commands that combine sounds or 
create  new sounds as a side-effect (like
.IR bounce " or " split ")"
will either consume sounds from the stack or push new sounds onto the stack.
.PP 
The stack
can be used as a scratch pad to save intermediate versions of a sound being 
edited, as a storage space for a collection of sounds, or any other purpose, 
and can be manipulated with dedicated commands such as 
.IR dup ", " pop ", " swap ", " roll ", etc."
.PP
Each individual sound on the stack is contained in a 
.B
frame
which also maintains editing context pertinent to the sound, such as the 
location of the cursor and selection in- and out-points.
.SH COMMANDS AND ACTIONS

The command prompt in 
.B mw
accepts lines of commands of a form similar to 
.BR sed "."
.RS 4
.PP 
[start][,end][[action] arguments]
.RS -4
.PP
The 
.I start 
and 
.I end 
are
used to set the beginning and ending times for an action to act upon. When a 
.I start 
or 
.I end 
are read from the command line, they set the in and out edit points on the 
active sound, which will then be used by a following action. Some actions take 
additional arguments which follow the action, separated by spaces. 
Double-quotes can be used for arguments that contain spaces.
When 
.I start
is omitted from a command, the sound in-point is used, and if it is not set,
the beginning of the sound is used. When 
.I end
is omitted from a command, the sound out-point is used, and if it is not set,
the end of the sound is used.
.PP 
Commands can be followed by a "#" symbol and free comments, this may be useful
for people writing scripts.
.SS EXAMPLES
.IP 0,100bloop
Bloop the first 100 milliseconds of the sound.
.IP "100,-100 crop"
Crop the first and last 100 milliseconds off the sound.
.IP 0,-1 
Set the selection in- and out- points to the beginning and end of the sound.
.IP ,2500
Set the selection out-point to 2500 miliseconds, do not change the in-point.
.P
.BR mw 's
command prompt supports GNU 
.BR readline (3)
for line editing and auto-completion; all of the commands listed here will 
autocomplete with the <Tab> key.
.SS ACTION LIST
.IP help
Prints a list of all command keywords 
.B mw
recognizes, along with a brief description. Keywords that accept arguments
are followed by their arguments in 
.IR [brackets] .
.IP license
Prints
.BR mw 's
license.
.IP show
Prints a text graphic of the sound presently at the top of the editor stack. 
This include a waveform bargraph of the sound's amplitiude with respect to 
time, as well as a text representation of the current cursor, in- and 
out-points.
.IP stack
Prints a text graphic of every sound in the editor stack, from top to bottom, 
and prints out the length of the current editing session, being the length of
the longest sound in the stack.
.IP "ci"
Clears the selection in-point.
.IP "co"
Clears the selection out-point.
.IP "setw [width]"
Sets the current display width: the number of columns
.B mw
will use when
.IR show ing
a wavform. If no argument is given, defaults to 80.
.IP dup
Duplicates the sound at the top of the stack and pushes the duplicate onto the 
top.
.IP swap
Swaps the top two sounds on the stack.
.IP pop
Pops the sound at the top of the stack, deleting it.
.IP "roll [count]"
Rolls the stack forward, the top sound is placed at the end and the second 
sound becomes
the top sound. The
.I count
may be either positive or negative and defaults to "1".
.IP crop
Crops the sound. Samples prior to the selection in-point and after the 
selection out-point are deleted. If either of these is not specified, the 
beginning and end of the sound are the default.
.IP silence
Inserts silence of length
.I dur
milliseconds at the in-point to the out-point, shifting the audio between back.
.IP split
Splits the sound at the in-point. The current sound is popped off the stack. 
Two new sounds are pushed onto the stack, the first made of the samples 
preceding the cursor and the second of samples following the cursor.
.IP append
Appends the 2nd-highest sound on the stack to the end of the top sound on the 
stack. 
.IP prepend 
Prepends the 2nd-highest sound on the stack to the end of the top sound on the 
stack. 
(Reverses a 
.IR split ")."
.IP "loop [count]"
Loops the selection
.I count
times.
.IP "normalize [db]"
Normalizes the sound between the in and out points to 
.I db 
decibels. The default is 0.0.
.IP fadein
Applies a linear fade to the sound, increasing from the beginning of the sound 
to the in-point.
.IP fadeout
Applies a linear fade to the sound, decreasing from the out-point to the end of 
the sound.
.IP play
Plays the sound.
.IP length
Prints the length of the sound.
.IP bounce
Bounces or mixes the top two sounds on the stack together, creating a new sound 
that is
placed on the top of the stack.
.IP bloop
Silences the samples between the insertion in-point and out-point.
.IP "export [name]"
Exports the sound as a wav file. If no
.I name
is provided, the default is 
.IR out.wav .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
On user quit.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Hardt <https://github.com/iluvcapra>
.SH BUGS
.B mw
is (optimistically) beta software and has numerous gaps in implementation and 
performance. Issue submissions, feature requests, pull requests and other 
contributions 
are welcome and should be directed at 
.BR mw 's
home page on GitHub:
.RS 4
.I https://github.com/iluvcapra/mw 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "ffmpeg" "(1),"
.BR "pydub" "<http://pydub.com>"
